[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Describing
this with the func term, right?
So the Promise is
a function that has a value
that then I can access on my-
>> Speaker 2: Do you really mean this,
capital P promise?
>> Kyle Simpson: I think so.
Okay, capital P,
Promise is built into Java Script.
It is a constructor that has to
be called with the new keyword so
that makes it very different from anything
we were talking about with funcs.
The way you construct a Promise is to pass
in a function which I've
called executor here.
That's the terminology used in the spec.
Whatever function you pass in and
whatever it's called is going to
receive to function callbacks.
Two utilities that you can use
to handle the resolution of
your Promise resolved for
fulfilling reject for rejecting.
>> Speaker 3: And so,
I'm just want to take this connected to
the flow, cuz at some point when I call,
I pass at output, right?
My promise has been returned, right?
It's when it finishes its
work it will then know
that I've registered output to it, right?
And then you'd send, say, okay,
now I'm going to execute
output because you registered.
>> Kyle Simpson: I think it's-
>> Speaker 3: The function to.
>> Kyle Simpson: I think maybe I want
one of the confusions I'm not sure,
but I think maybe part of
the confusion here is you're trying to
conflate the whole process
into one mental step.
It's two entirely separate concerns.
One concern is how
the Promise gets resolved,
that's what I'm showing here on the line
25, line 25 is resolving the Promise.
Don't think about how
a Promise is resolved,
when you switch hats to think about how
you respond to a Promise resolution.
You're going to get confused if you try
to think about those at the same time.
Line 38 is a response to
a Promise resolution, and
on line 38 who the hell
cares how it got resolved.
Doesn't matter how it got resolved.
All that matters is this is how I'm
declaring the response to a Promise.
I would recommend keeping those two
completely separate in your mind.
Cuz it seems like some of the questions
are kind of conflating when people
are saying is this the resolve value or
whatever.
That might be were some of the confusion,
is trying to keep those as one step.
There are two entirely
separate capabilities.
And that's important, by the way.
That's a separation of concern.
We should be able to think
about the response to a Promise
entirely independently to
how a Promise gets resolved.
>> Speaker 3: I just want
to make sure the thing I
have to tell myself is just be ignorant of
whatever is happening and just do this.
>> Kyle Simpson: That is
absolutely not what I want.
>> Speaker 3: That's
what I wanna avoid and so
that's why I'm asking
to try to understand.
>> Kyle Simpson: I absolutely that is
the antithesis of everything I teach
I do not want the message to be,
don't understand it.
I want the message to be understand it
separately so here when I call resolve,
I am telling the Promise that's a magical
function connected to the Promise I
am telling the Promise under
the covers resolve yourself.
And the response that a Promise does when
it is told to resolve itself is to go and
look for anybody that's registered and
then handler and
execute that then handler and
pass along its values.
That's the sausage making of how
a Promise implementation is built.
It's got an internal array of then
handlers and it loops through them.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, that's what I was
trying to articulate earlier though.
The output is in that set of things
that is done under the covers to.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah, I think maybe where
I got where we were getting confused as
you were saying output is result,
it's not.
>> Speaker 3: No, no, no, yeah.
I said that earlier, that was-
>> Kyle Simpson: Resolve fires off
an asynchronous action under the covers
that tells it to go through a list of then
handlers that have been registered and
one of those then handlers is
going to be the output function.
And it will make sure to pass
the message along, okay?
That's all implementation
inside of a Promise.
And there are Promise libraries
that you could go and
read that are spec compliant
Promise libraries.
You can go and read and see how they do
those things, and I I recommend that.
I wrote Promise libraries as part
of my understanding of promises.
>> Speaker 4: Are you gonna
get to catching errors?
There's some questions that-
>> Kyle Simpson: I don't really think
we're gonna pay much attention to
catching errors at this particular point.
>> Speaker 4: One of the questions was
just, if you would put a catch at the end,
would that catch errors
in any of the at ends?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes,
catch is a shorthand, okay?
If I do a catch here.
It would receive an error message anywhere
in this chain that created an error.
Even if I did something, I should
have taken this out a long time ago,
anything in this chain like if I
call a doesn't exist function.
That's gonna throw a JavaScript
error because there is no doesn't
exist function.
That JavaScript error is going
to turn into of a rejection
of the promise that was
returned to line 43.
Because line 43 doesn't handle it and
line 44 doesn't handle it and
line 47 doesn't handle it and
line 48 doesn't handle it.
That rejection is going to propagate its
way all the way down the chain skipping
all those other steps and
it will finally be caught here on line 51.
And we'd get the JavaScript
exception printed here.
The .catch is the same thing as a .then
where we don't pass anything for
the success handler.
So those two are functionally equivalent.
Where and how often you register error
handlers is there is no hard and fast rule
for this it's dependent upon the behavior
the intended behavior of your system.
If I register to catch right here for
example,
then what happens is once
a error has been caught.
It's exactly synonymous to a try catch,
which means that it was caught and
it allows the rest of the chain
to continue as normal.
So if you want to recover from an error
at some point in your Promise chain,
you can put an error handling there.
If on the other hand your assumption
is that an error anywhere in the chain
is a fatal unrecoverable condition and
we need to fall out of everything,
then just put a catch at the end of
your chain or a mixture they're of.
But there's no hard and fast rule to
answer that just you have to figure out.
It's exactly the same as me telling you
to wrap a try catch around your whole
function.
Or do you warp a try catch around
every single line of your function?
The answer to that question is up to you.
And up to how you want to handle it.
>> Speaker 3: And
the input to line 40 the value would
be the return value from the catch.
Right, catch is gonna return a value and
that will then be the value passed to 40.
>> Kyle Simpson: Your error handler can
return value that becomes the success for
the next step.
The reason I didn't want to get
into error handling is because
we get into a whole side rabbit
trail of complex issues.
Those are things you'll discover
as you play more with Promises but
I don't want us get too far off track and
understanding the overall pattern here.
So you're gonna need to
practice with promises
I have written about all
of this stuff in detail.
I encourage you to go and read the books
and blogs that I've written about.
These Promise issues and I do cover
error handling in exquisite detail.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right, let's pop
the stack back to where we were before,
just to make sure we're back on the same
track, p1 .then(output) .then return p2.
.then(output) .then return p3.
.then(output) then output complete.
That's the canonical flow control here.
Did we get the questions handled?
>> Speaker 4: I think so,
it sounds like it.
I think the biggest thing was
that they didn't understand what
the promise API what that
actually looked like and
that was where the resolve
was actually coming from.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, this solution
is nice, it has an elegance to it.
It's a vertically oriented
chain instead of a nesting,
I mentioned to you that there
is such a thing as Promise hell.
And one of the expressions of Promise
hell that you should be aware of,
it's kind of what I was getting at
earlier about not conflating concerns.
Another way of thinking about this
Promise chain is to say something like
I'm going to call the output function for
text.
And then I'm going to call p2.then
>> Kyle Simpson: And
inside of that function I'm going to
output the text and then p3.then.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
I'm going to output the text and
output complete.
Without me putting in the extra
curly brace and closing parentheses,
that's a completely valid way
of expressing the flow control,
it will have the exact same end result.
This is a bad style,
this is a bad idiom, and
this is one of the expressions when
people talk about Promise hell.
If you find yourself back to the whole
nesting thing, you're missing the point.
And the real point that you're missing
here is your return a Promise to get
yourself back to the original chain.
Instead of chaining off for the Promise
here return the Promise back to the main
chain and
do your you're chaining vertically, okay?
So be careful about that.
It's very easy to fall back into that same
temptation is what we've always done which
is I'm used to nesting things together.
This is one of the ways you get yourself
back into what we call Promise hell.